.TH ARCHIVE_READ_FILTER 3 "June 9, 2020" ""
.SH NAME
.ad l
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_all\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_bzip2\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_compress\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_gzip\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lz4\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lzma\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_none\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_rpm\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_uu\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_xz\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_zstd\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_program\fP,
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_program_signature\fP
\- functions for reading streaming archives
.SH LIBRARY
.ad l
Streaming Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fB#include <archive.h>\fP
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_all\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_by_code\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP, \fI\%int\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_bzip2\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_compress\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_grzip\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_gzip\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lrzip\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lz4\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lzma\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lzop\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_none\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_rpm\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_uu\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_xz\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_zstd\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_program\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP, \fI\%const\ char\ *cmd\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_program_signature\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP, \fI\%const\ char\ *cmd\fP, \fI\%const\ void\ *signature\fP, \fI\%size_t\ signature_length\fP);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad l
.RS 5
.TP
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_bzip2\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_compress\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_grzip\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_gzip\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lrzip\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lz4\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lzma\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_lzop\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_none\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_rpm\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_uu\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_xz\fP(),
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_zstd\fP(),
Enables auto-detection code and decompression support for the
specified compression.
These functions may fall back on external programs if an appropriate
library was not available at build time.
Decompression using an external program is usually slower than
decompression through built-in libraries.
Note that
``none''
is always enabled by default.
.TP
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_all\fP()
Enables all available decompression filters.
.TP
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_by_code\fP()
Enables a single filter specified by the filter code.
This function does not work with
\fBARCHIVE_FILTER_PROGRAM\fP.
Note: In statically-linked executables, this will cause
your program to include support for every filter.
If executable size is a concern, you may wish to avoid
using this function.
.TP
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_program\fP()
Data is fed through the specified external program before being dearchived.
Note that this disables automatic detection of the compression format,
so it makes no sense to specify this in conjunction with any other
decompression option.
.TP
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_program_signature\fP()
This feeds data through the specified external program
but only if the initial bytes of the data match the specified
signature value.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.ad l
These functions return
\fBARCHIVE_OK\fP
if the compression is fully supported,
\fBARCHIVE_WARN\fP
if the compression is supported only through an external program.
.PP
\fB\%archive_read_support_filter_none\fP()
always succeeds.
.SH ERRORS
.ad l
Detailed error codes and textual descriptions are available from the
\fB\%archive_errno\fP()
and
\fB\%archive_error_string\fP()
functions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
\fBarchive_read\fP(3),
\fBarchive_read_data\fP(3),
\fBarchive_read_format\fP(3),
\fBarchive_read_format\fP(3),
\fBlibarchive\fP(3)
