CPIO(5) manual page 
== NAME == 
'''cpio''' 
- format of cpio archive files 
== DESCRIPTION == 
The 
'''cpio''' 
archive format collects any number of files, directories, and other 
file system objects (symbolic links, device nodes, etc.) into a single 
stream of bytes. 
=== General Format=== 
Each file system object in a 
'''cpio''' 
archive comprises a header record with basic numeric metadata 
followed by the full pathname of the entry and the file data. 
The header record stores a series of integer values that generally 
follow the fields in 
''struct'' stat. 
(See 
[[stat(2)|http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=stat&sektion=2]] 
for details.) 
The variants differ primarily in how they store those integers 
(binary, octal, or hexadecimal). 
The header is followed by the pathname of the 
entry (the length of the pathname is stored in the header) 
and any file data. 
The end of the archive is indicated by a special record with 
the pathname 
"TRAILER!!!". 
=== PWB format=== 
The PWB binary 
'''cpio''' 
format is the original format, when cpio was introduced as part of the 
Programmer's Work Bench system, a variant of 6th Edition UNIX.  It 
stores numbers as 2-byte and 4-byte binary values. 
Each entry begins with a header in the following format: 

```text
struct header_pwb_cpio {
        short   h_magic;
        short   h_dev;
        short   h_ino;
        short   h_mode;
        short   h_uid;
        short   h_gid;
        short   h_nlink;
        short   h_majmin;
        long    h_mtime;
        short   h_namesize;
        long    h_filesize;
};
```

The 
''short'' 
fields here are 16-bit integer values, while the 
''long'' 
fields are 32 bit integers.  Since PWB UNIX, like the 6th Edition UNIX 
it was based on, only ran on PDP-11 computers, they 
are in PDP-endian format, which has little-endian shorts, and 
big-endian longs.  That is, the long integer whose hexadecimal 
representation is 0x12345678 would be stored in four successive bytes 
as 0x34, 0x12, 0x78, 0x56. 
The fields are as follows: 
<dl> 
<dt>''h_magic''</dt><dd> 
The integer value octal 070707. 
</dd><dt>''h_dev'', ''h_ino''</dt><dd> 
The device and inode numbers from the disk. 
These are used by programs that read 
'''cpio''' 
archives to determine when two entries refer to the same file. 
Programs that synthesize 
'''cpio''' 
archives should be careful to set these to distinct values for each entry. 
</dd><dt>''h_mode''</dt><dd> 
The mode specifies both the regular permissions and the file type, and 
it also holds a couple of bits that are irrelevant to the cpio format, 
because the field is actually a raw copy of the mode field in the inode 
representing the file.  These are the IALLOC flag, which shows that 
the inode entry is in use, and the ILARG flag, which shows that the 
file it represents is large enough to have indirect blocks pointers in 
the inode. 
The mode is decoded as follows: 

<dl> 
<dt>0100000</dt><dd> 
IALLOC flag - irrelevant to cpio. 
</dd><dt>0060000</dt><dd> 
This masks the file type bits. 
</dd><dt>0040000</dt><dd> 
File type value for directories. 
</dd><dt>0020000</dt><dd> 
File type value for character special devices. 
</dd><dt>0060000</dt><dd> 
File type value for block special devices. 
</dd><dt>0010000</dt><dd> 
ILARG flag - irrelevant to cpio. 
</dd><dt>0004000</dt><dd> 
SUID bit. 
</dd><dt>0002000</dt><dd> 
SGID bit. 
</dd><dt>0001000</dt><dd> 
Sticky bit. 
</dd><dt>0000777</dt><dd> 
The lower 9 bits specify read/write/execute permissions 
for world, group, and user following standard POSIX conventions. 
</dd></dl> 
</dd><dt>''h_uid'', ''h_gid''</dt><dd> 
The numeric user id and group id of the owner. 
</dd><dt>''h_nlink''</dt><dd> 
The number of links to this file. 
Directories always have a value of at least two here. 
Note that hardlinked files include file data with every copy in the archive. 
</dd><dt>''h_majmin''</dt><dd> 
For block special and character special entries, 
this field contains the associated device number, with the major 
number in the high byte, and the minor number in the low byte. 
For all other entry types, it should be set to zero by writers 
and ignored by readers. 
</dd><dt>''h_mtime''</dt><dd> 
Modification time of the file, indicated as the number 
of seconds since the start of the epoch, 
00:00:00 UTC January 1, 1970. 
</dd><dt>''h_namesize''</dt><dd> 
The number of bytes in the pathname that follows the header. 
This count includes the trailing NUL byte. 
</dd><dt>''h_filesize''</dt><dd> 
The size of the file.  Note that this archive format is limited to 16 
megabyte file sizes, because PWB UNIX, like 6th Edition, only used 
an unsigned 24 bit integer for the file size internally. 
</dd></dl> 

The pathname immediately follows the fixed header. 
If 
'''h_namesize''' 
is odd, an additional NUL byte is added after the pathname. 
The file data is then appended, again with an additional NUL 
appended if needed to get the next header at an even offset. 

Hardlinked files are not given special treatment; 
the full file contents are included with each copy of the 
file. 
=== New Binary Format=== 
The new binary 
'''cpio''' 
format showed up when cpio was adopted into late 7th Edition UNIX. 
It is exactly like the PWB binary format, described above, except for 
three changes: 

First, UNIX now ran on more than one hardware type, so the endianness 
of 16 bit integers must be determined by observing the magic number at 
the start of the header.  The 32 bit integers are still always stored 
with the most significant word first, though, so each of those two, in 
the struct shown above, was stored as an array of two 16 bit integers, 
in the traditional order.  Those 16 bit integers, like all the others 
in the struct, were accessed using a macro that byte swapped them if 
necessary. 

Next, 7th Edition had more file types to store, and the IALLOC and ILARG 
flag bits were re-purposed to accommodate these.  The revised use of the 
various bits is as follows: 

<dl> 
<dt>0170000</dt><dd> 
This masks the file type bits. 
</dd><dt>0140000</dt><dd> 
File type value for sockets. 
</dd><dt>0120000</dt><dd> 
File type value for symbolic links. 
For symbolic links, the link body is stored as file data. 
</dd><dt>0100000</dt><dd> 
File type value for regular files. 
</dd><dt>0060000</dt><dd> 
File type value for block special devices. 
</dd><dt>0040000</dt><dd> 
File type value for directories. 
</dd><dt>0020000</dt><dd> 
File type value for character special devices. 
</dd><dt>0010000</dt><dd> 
File type value for named pipes or FIFOs. 
</dd><dt>0004000</dt><dd> 
SUID bit. 
</dd><dt>0002000</dt><dd> 
SGID bit. 
</dd><dt>0001000</dt><dd> 
Sticky bit. 
</dd><dt>0000777</dt><dd> 
The lower 9 bits specify read/write/execute permissions 
for world, group, and user following standard POSIX conventions. 
</dd></dl> 

Finally, the file size field now represents a signed 32 bit integer in 
the underlying file system, so the maximum file size has increased to 
2 gigabytes. 

Note that there is no obvious way to tell which of the two binary 
formats an archive uses, other than to see which one makes more 
sense.  The typical error scenario is that a PWB format archive 
unpacked as if it were in the new format will create named sockets 
instead of directories, and then fail to unpack files that should 
go in those directories.  Running 
''bsdcpio'' -itv 
on an unknown archive will make it obvious which it is: if it's 
PWB format, directories will be listed with an 's' instead of 
a 'd' as the first character of the mode string, and the larger 
files will have a '?' in that position. 
=== Portable ASCII Format=== 
<nowiki>Version 2 of the Single UNIX Specification (``SUSv2'')</nowiki> 
standardized an ASCII variant that is portable across all 
platforms. 
It is commonly known as the 
"old character" 
format or as the 
"odc" 
format. 
It stores the same numeric fields as the old binary format, but 
represents them as 6-character or 11-character octal values. 

```text
struct cpio_odc_header {
        char    c_magic[6];
        char    c_dev[6];
        char    c_ino[6];
        char    c_mode[6];
        char    c_uid[6];
        char    c_gid[6];
        char    c_nlink[6];
        char    c_rdev[6];
        char    c_mtime[11];
        char    c_namesize[6];
        char    c_filesize[11];
};
```

The fields are identical to those in the new binary format. 
The name and file body follow the fixed header. 
Unlike the binary formats, there is no additional padding 
after the pathname or file contents. 
If the files being archived are themselves entirely ASCII, then 
the resulting archive will be entirely ASCII, except for the 
NUL byte that terminates the name field. 
=== New ASCII Format=== 
The "new" ASCII format uses 8-byte hexadecimal fields for 
all numbers and separates device numbers into separate fields 
for major and minor numbers. 

```text
struct cpio_newc_header {
        char    c_magic[6];
        char    c_ino[8];
        char    c_mode[8];
        char    c_uid[8];
        char    c_gid[8];
        char    c_nlink[8];
        char    c_mtime[8];
        char    c_filesize[8];
        char    c_devmajor[8];
        char    c_devminor[8];
        char    c_rdevmajor[8];
        char    c_rdevminor[8];
        char    c_namesize[8];
        char    c_check[8];
};
```

Except as specified below, the fields here match those specified 
for the new binary format above. 
<dl> 
<dt>''magic''</dt><dd> 
The string 
"070701". 
</dd><dt>''check''</dt><dd> 
This field is always set to zero by writers and ignored by readers. 
See the next section for more details. 
</dd></dl> 

The pathname is followed by NUL bytes so that the total size 
of the fixed header plus pathname is a multiple of four. 
Likewise, the file data is padded to a multiple of four bytes. 
Note that this format supports only 4 gigabyte files (unlike the 
older ASCII format, which supports 8 gigabyte files). 

In this format, hardlinked files are handled by setting the 
filesize to zero for each entry except the first one that 
appears in the archive. 
=== New CRC Format=== 
The CRC format is identical to the new ASCII format described 
in the previous section except that the magic field is set 
to 
"070702" 
and the 
''check'' 
field is set to the sum of all bytes in the file data. 
This sum is computed treating all bytes as unsigned values 
and using unsigned arithmetic. 
Only the least-significant 32 bits of the sum are stored. 
=== HP variants=== 
The 
'''cpio''' 
implementation distributed with HPUX used XXXX but stored 
device numbers differently XXX. 
=== Other Extensions and Variants=== 
Sun Solaris uses additional file types to store extended file 
data, including ACLs and extended attributes, as special 
entries in cpio archives. 

XXX Others? XXX 
== SEE ALSO == 
[[ManPageBsdcpio1]], 
[[ManPageTar5]] 
== STANDARDS == 
The 
'''cpio''' 
utility is no longer a part of POSIX or the Single Unix Standard. 
It last appeared in 
<nowiki>Version 2 of the Single UNIX Specification (``SUSv2'')</nowiki>. 
It has been supplanted in subsequent standards by 
[[pax(1)|http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=pax&sektion=1]]. 
The portable ASCII format is currently part of the specification for the 
[[pax(1)|http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=pax&sektion=1]] 
utility. 
== HISTORY == 
The original cpio utility was written by Dick Haight 
while working in AT&T's Unix Support Group. 
It appeared in 1977 as part of PWB/UNIX 1.0, the 
"Programmer's Work Bench" 
derived from 
At 6th Edition UNIX 
that was used internally at AT&T. 
Both the new binary and old character formats were in use 
by 1980, according to the System III source released 
by SCO under their 
"Ancient Unix" 
license. 
The character format was adopted as part of 
<nowiki>IEEE Std 1003.1-1988 (``POSIX.1'')</nowiki>. 
XXX when did "newc" appear?  Who invented it?  When did HP come out with their variant?  When did Sun introduce ACLs and extended attributes? XXX 
== BUGS == 
The 
"CRC" 
format is mis-named, as it uses a simple checksum and 
not a cyclic redundancy check. 

The binary formats are limited to 16 bits for user id, group id, 
device, and inode numbers.  They are limited to 16 megabyte and 2 
gigabyte file sizes for the older and newer variants, respectively. 

The old ASCII format is limited to 18 bits for 
the user id, group id, device, and inode numbers. 
It is limited to 8 gigabyte file sizes. 

The new ASCII format is limited to 4 gigabyte file sizes. 

None of the cpio formats store user or group names, 
which are essential when moving files between systems with 
dissimilar user or group numbering. 

Especially when writing older cpio variants, it may be necessary 
to map actual device/inode values to synthesized values that 
fit the available fields. 
With very large filesystems, this may be necessary even for 
the newer formats. 
