.TH ARCHIVE_ENTRY 3 "February 2, 2012" ""
.SH NAME
.ad l
\fB\%archive_entry_clear\fP,
\fB\%archive_entry_clone\fP,
\fB\%archive_entry_free\fP,
\fB\%archive_entry_new\fP
\- functions for managing archive entry descriptions
.SH LIBRARY
.ad l
Streaming Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fB#include <archive_entry.h>\fP
.br
\fIstruct archive_entry *\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_entry_clear\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive_entry\ *\fP);
.br
\fIstruct archive_entry *\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_entry_clone\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive_entry\ *\fP);
.br
\fIvoid\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_entry_free\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive_entry\ *\fP);
.br
\fIstruct archive_entry *\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_entry_new\fP(\fI\%void\fP);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad l
These functions create and manipulate data objects that
represent entries within an archive.
You can think of a
Tn struct archive_entry
as a heavy-duty version of
Tn struct stat:
it includes everything from
Tn struct stat
plus associated pathname, textual group and user names, etc.
These objects are used by
\fBlibarchive\fP(3)
to represent the metadata associated with a particular
entry in an archive.
.SS Create and Destroy
There are functions to allocate, destroy, clear, and copy
\fIarchive_entry\fP
objects:
.RS 5
.TP
\fB\%archive_entry_clear\fP()
Erases the object, resetting all internal fields to the
same state as a newly-created object.
This is provided to allow you to quickly recycle objects
without thrashing the heap.
.TP
\fB\%archive_entry_clone\fP()
A deep copy operation; all text fields are duplicated.
.TP
\fB\%archive_entry_free\fP()
Releases the
Tn struct archive_entry
object.
.TP
\fB\%archive_entry_new\fP()
Allocate and return a blank
Tn struct archive_entry
object.
.RE
.SS Function groups
Due to high number of functions, the accessor functions can be found in
man pages grouped by the purpose.
.RS 5
.TP
\fBarchive_entry_acl\fP(3)
Access Control List manipulation
.TP
\fBarchive_entry_paths\fP(3)
Path name manipulation
.TP
\fBarchive_entry_perms\fP(3)
User, group and mode manipulation
.TP
\fBarchive_entry_stat\fP(3)
Functions not in the other groups and copying to/from
Vt struct stat.
.TP
\fBarchive_entry_time\fP(3)
Time field manipulation
.RE
.PP
Most of the functions set or read entries in an object.
Such functions have one of the following forms:
.RS 5
.TP
\fB\%archive_entry_set_XXXX\fP()
Stores the provided data in the object.
In particular, for strings, the pointer is stored,
not the referenced string.
.TP
\fB\%archive_entry_copy_XXXX\fP()
As above, except that the referenced data is copied
into the object.
.TP
\fB\%archive_entry_XXXX\fP()
Returns the specified data.
In the case of strings, a const-qualified pointer to
the string is returned.
.RE
String data can be set or accessed as wide character strings
or normal
\fIchar\fP
strings.
The functions that use wide character strings are suffixed with
\fB_w\fP.
Note that these are different representations of the same data:
For example, if you store a narrow string and read the corresponding
wide string, the object will transparently convert formats
using the current locale.
Similarly, if you store a wide string and then store a
narrow string for the same data, the previously-set wide string will
be discarded in favor of the new data.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
\fBarchive_entry_acl\fP(3),
\fBarchive_entry_paths\fP(3),
\fBarchive_entry_perms\fP(3),
\fBarchive_entry_time\fP(3),
\fBlibarchive\fP(3)
.SH HISTORY
.ad l
The
\fB\%libarchive\fP
library first appeared in
FreeBSD 5.3.
.SH AUTHORS
.ad l
-nosplit
The
\fB\%libarchive\fP
library was written by
Tim Kientzle \%<kientzle@acm.org.>
