.TH RPI\-IMAGER 1
.
.SH NAME
rpi\-imager \- Flash disk images to removable storage
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY rpi\-imager
.OP \-\-debug
.OP \-\-repo url
.OP \-\-qm translations
.OP \-\-disable\-telemetry
.OP image-uri
.YS
.
.SY rpi\-imager
\-\-cli
.OP \-\-debug
.OP \-\-quiet
.OP \-\-disable\-verify
.OP \-\-sha256 expected-hash
image-uri
destination-device
.YS
.
.SY rpi\-imager
\-\-version
.YS
.
.SY rpi\-imager
\-\-help
.YS
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rpi\-imager
is a utility for writing a disk image file, which may optionally be compressed,
to a removable destination disk, such as a micro-SD card or a USB-attached SSD
drive.
.
.PP
When run without further command line arguments, the utility presents a simple
graphical interface with controls for image-file selection, target drive
selection, and one to start writing. In this mode, the Raspberry Pi server
(and potentially third party servers) will be queried for available OS images.
You may also specify an
.I image-uri
(which may be a local file, or an HTTP or HTTPS URL) to flash directly on the
command line.
.
.PP
When run with the
.I \-\-cli
argument, the utility directly flashes the
.I image-uri
given to the specified
.IR destination-drive .
In this case, the
.I \-\-sha256
option can be used to pass in the expected SHA256 checksum of the image.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-cli
Do not launch the graphical interface; just flash the image given to the
specified drive. In this mode, the
.I image-uri
and
.I destination-device
must both be specified.
.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Output extra debugging information on the console.
.
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-telemetry
Do not report OS writes to
.I http://rpi-imager-stats.raspberrypi.com/
.
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-verify
After writing the image, do not attempt to verify that the image was written
correctly.
Only valid when run with
.IR \-\-cli .
.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a synopsis of the command line syntax and exit.
.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Suppress all console output.
Only valid when run with
.IR \-\-cli .
.
.TP
.BI \-\-qm \ translations
Specify an alternate Qt message translations file to use with the GUI.
.
.TP
.BI \-\-repo \ url
Instead of querying the Raspberry Pi servers for the list of available OS
images, query this URL instead. The URL will be expected to return a JSON file
conforming to the format described in the associated
.IR json-schema .
.
.TP
.BI \-\-sha256 \ expected-hash
Verify that the image matches the
.I expected-hash
before writing it to the specified destination.
Only valid when run with
.IR \-\-cli .
.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Report the version of the utility, and the default URI it will attempt to
query to determine the available OS images.
.
.TP
image-uri
If specified, the URI of the image to write to the destination. This may be a
local file, or a remote URL supporting the HTTP or HTTPS protocols. This must
be specified when using
.IR \-\-cli .
.
.TP
destination-device
The device to which to write the specified image, e.g.
.IR /dev/mmcblk0 .
Only valid when run with
.IR \-\-cli .
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B rpi\-imager
Launch the graphical interface.
.
.TP
.B rpi\-imager \-\-repo http://localhost:8080/os_list_utility.json
Test a locally hosted version of the OS list with the graphical interface.
.
.TP
.B rpi\-imager \-\-cli \-\-disable\-verify test.img /dev/mmcblk0
Write
.I test.img
to
.I /dev/mmcblk0
without any verification of the image itself, and no check that the image
flashed correctly. This also avoids launching the graphical interface.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dd (1)
