ARCHIVE_ENTRY_PERMS(3) manual page 
== NAME == 
'''archive_entry_gid''', 
'''archive_entry_set_gid''', 
'''archive_entry_uid''', 
'''archive_entry_set_uid''', 
'''archive_entry_perm''', 
'''archive_entry_set_perm''', 
'''archive_entry_strmode''', 
'''archive_entry_uname''', 
'''archive_entry_uname_w''', 
'''archive_entry_set_uname''', 
'''archive_entry_copy_uname''', 
'''archive_entry_copy_uname_w''', 
'''archive_entry_update_uname_utf8''', 
'''archive_entry_gname''', 
'''archive_entry_gname_w''', 
'''archive_entry_set_gname''', 
'''archive_entry_copy_gname''', 
'''archive_entry_copy_gname_w''', 
'''archive_entry_update_gname_utf8''', 
'''archive_entry_fflags''', 
'''archive_entry_fflags_text''', 
'''archive_entry_set_fflags''', 
'''archive_entry_copy_fflags_text''', 
'''archive_entry_copy_fflags_text_w''' 
- functions for manipulating ownership and permissions in archive entry descriptions 
== LIBRARY == 
Streaming Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive) 
== SYNOPSIS == 
'''<nowiki>#include <archive_entry.h></nowiki>''' 
<br> 
''gid_t'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_gid'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_set_gid'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''gid_t gid''); 
<br> 
''uid_t'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_uid'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_set_uid'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''uid_t uid''); 
<br> 
''mode_t'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_perm'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_set_perm'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''mode_t mode''); 
<br> 
''const char *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_strmode'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''const char *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_gname'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''const wchar_t *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_gname_w'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_set_gname'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const char *a''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_copy_gname'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const char *name''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_copy_gname_w'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const wchar_t *name''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_update_gname_utf8'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const char *name''); 
<br> 
''const char *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_uname'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''const wchar_t *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_uname_w'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_set_uname'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const char *name''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_copy_uname'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const char *name''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_copy_uname_w'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const wchar_t *name''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_update_uname_utf8'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const char *name''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_fflags'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''unsigned long *set_bits'', ''unsigned long *clear_bits''); 
<br> 
''const char *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_fflags_text'''(''struct archive_entry *a''); 
<br> 
''void'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_set_fflags'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''unsigned long set_bits'', ''unsigned long clear_bits''); 
<br> 
''const char *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_copy_fflags_text'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const char *text''); 
<br> 
''const wchar_t *'' 
<br> 
'''archive_entry_copy_fflags_text_w'''(''struct archive_entry *a'', ''const wchar_t *text''); 
== DESCRIPTION == 
=== User id, group id and mode=== 
The functions 
'''archive_entry_uid'''(), 
'''archive_entry_gid'''(), 
and 
'''archive_entry_perm'''() 
can be used to extract the user id, group id and permission from the given entry. 
The corresponding functions 
'''archive_entry_set_uid'''(), 
'''archive_entry_set_gid'''(), 
and 
'''archive_entry_set_perm'''() 
store the given user id, group id and permission in the entry. 
The permission is also set as a side effect of calling 
'''archive_entry_set_mode'''(). 

'''archive_entry_strmode'''() 
returns a string representation of the permission as used by the long mode of 
[[ls(1)|http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=ls&sektion=1]]. 
=== User and group name=== 
User and group names can be provided in one of three different ways: 
<dl> 
<dt>char *</dt><dd> 
Multibyte strings in the current locale. 
</dd><dt>wchar_t *</dt><dd> 
Wide character strings in the current locale. 
The accessor functions are named 
'''XXX_w'''(). 
</dd><dt>UTF-8</dt><dd> 
Unicode strings encoded as UTF-8. 
These are convenience functions to update both the multibyte and wide 
character strings at the same time. 
</dd></dl> 

'''archive_entry_set_XXX'''() 
is an alias for 
'''archive_entry_copy_XXX'''(). 
=== File Flags=== 
File flags are transparently converted between a bitmap 
representation and a textual format. 
For example, if you set the bitmap and ask for text, the library 
will build a canonical text format. 
However, if you set a text format and request a text format, 
you will get back the same text, even if it is ill-formed. 
If you need to canonicalize a textual flags string, you should first set the 
text form, then request the bitmap form, then use that to set the bitmap form. 
Setting the bitmap format will clear the internal text representation 
and force it to be reconstructed when you next request the text form. 

The bitmap format consists of two integers, one containing bits 
that should be set, the other specifying bits that should be 
cleared. 
Bits not mentioned in either bitmap will be ignored. 
Usually, the bitmap of bits to be cleared will be set to zero. 
In unusual circumstances, you can force a fully-specified set 
of file flags by setting the bitmap of flags to clear to the complement 
of the bitmap of flags to set. 
(This differs from 
[[fflagstostr(3)|http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=fflagstostr&sektion=3]], 
which only includes names for set bits.) 
Converting a bitmap to a textual string is a platform-specific 
operation; bits that are not meaningful on the current platform 
will be ignored. 

The canonical text format is a comma-separated list of flag names. 
The 
'''archive_entry_copy_fflags_text'''() 
and 
'''archive_entry_copy_fflags_text_w'''() 
functions parse the provided text and set the internal bitmap values. 
This is a platform-specific operation; names that are not meaningful 
on the current platform will be ignored. 
The function returns a pointer to the start of the first name that was not 
recognized, or NULL if every name was recognized. 
Note that every name \(em including names that follow an unrecognized 
name \(em will be evaluated, and the bitmaps will be set to reflect 
every name that is recognized. 
(In particular, this differs from 
[[strtofflags(3)|http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=strtofflags&sektion=3]], 
which stops parsing at the first unrecognized name.) 
== SEE ALSO == 
[[ManPageArchiveEntry3]], 
[[ManPageArchiveEntryAcl3]], 
[[ManPageArchiveReadDisk3]], 
[[ManPageArchiveWriteDisk3]], 
[[ManPageLibarchive3]] 
== BUGS == 
The platform types 
''uid_t'' 
and 
''gid_t'' 
are often 16 or 32 bit wide. 
In this case it is possible that the ids can not be correctly restored 
from archives and get truncated. 
