ARCHIVE_WRITE_FILTER(3) manual page 
== NAME == 
'''archive_write_add_filter_b64encode''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_by_name''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_bzip2''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_compress''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_grzip''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_gzip''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lrzip''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lz4''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzip''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzma''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzop''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_none''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_program''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_uuencode''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_xz''', 
'''archive_write_add_filter_zstd''' 
- functions enabling output filters 
== LIBRARY == 
Streaming Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive) 
== SYNOPSIS == 
'''<nowiki>#include <archive.h></nowiki>''' 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_b64encode'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_bzip2'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_compress'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_grzip'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_gzip'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lrzip'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lz4'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzip'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzma'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzop'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_none'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_program'''(''struct archive *'', ''const char * cmd''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_uuencode'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_xz'''(''struct archive *''); 
<br> 
''int'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_zstd'''(''struct archive *''); 
== DESCRIPTION == 
<dl> 
<dt> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_bzip2'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_compress'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_grzip'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_gzip'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lrzip'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lz4'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzip'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzma'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_lzop'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_xz'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_zstd'''(), 
</dt> <dd> 
The resulting archive will be compressed as specified. 
Note that the compressed output is always properly blocked. 
</dd><dt> 
'''archive_write_add_filter_b64encode'''(), 
'''archive_write_add_filter_uuencode'''(), 
</dt> <dd> 
The output will be encoded as specified. 
The encoded output is always properly blocked. 
</dd><dt>'''archive_write_add_filter_none'''()</dt><dd> 
This is never necessary. 
It is provided only for backwards compatibility. 
</dd><dt>'''archive_write_add_filter_program'''()</dt><dd> 
The archive will be fed into the specified compression program. 
The output of that program is blocked and written to the client 
write callbacks. 
</dd></dl> 
== RETURN VALUES == 
These functions return 
'''ARCHIVE_OK''' 
on success, or 
'''ARCHIVE_FATAL'''. 
== ERRORS == 
Detailed error codes and textual descriptions are available from the 
'''archive_errno'''() 
and 
'''archive_error_string'''() 
functions. 
== SEE ALSO == 
[[ManPageBsdtar1]], 
[[ManPageArchiveWrite3]], 
[[ManPageArchiveWriteFormat3]], 
[[ManPageArchiveWriteSetOptions3]], 
[[ManPageLibarchive3]], 
[[ManPageCpio5]], 
[[ManPageMtree5]], 
[[ManPageTar5]] 
