.TH ARCHIVE_WRITE_FILTER 3 "August 14, 2014" ""
.SH NAME
.ad l
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_b64encode\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_by_name\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_bzip2\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_compress\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_grzip\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_gzip\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lrzip\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lz4\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzip\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzma\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzop\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_none\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_program\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_uuencode\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_xz\fP,
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_zstd\fP
\- functions enabling output filters
.SH LIBRARY
.ad l
Streaming Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fB#include <archive.h>\fP
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_b64encode\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_bzip2\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_compress\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_grzip\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_gzip\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lrzip\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lz4\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzip\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzma\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzop\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_none\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_program\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP, \fI\%const\ char\ *\ cmd\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_uuencode\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_xz\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_zstd\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad l
.RS 5
.TP
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_bzip2\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_compress\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_grzip\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_gzip\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lrzip\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lz4\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzip\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzma\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_lzop\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_xz\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_zstd\fP(),
The resulting archive will be compressed as specified.
Note that the compressed output is always properly blocked.
.TP
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_b64encode\fP(),
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_uuencode\fP(),
The output will be encoded as specified.
The encoded output is always properly blocked.
.TP
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_none\fP()
This is never necessary.
It is provided only for backwards compatibility.
.TP
\fB\%archive_write_add_filter_program\fP()
The archive will be fed into the specified compression program.
The output of that program is blocked and written to the client
write callbacks.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.ad l
These functions return
\fBARCHIVE_OK\fP
on success, or
\fBARCHIVE_FATAL\fP.
.SH ERRORS
.ad l
Detailed error codes and textual descriptions are available from the
\fB\%archive_errno\fP()
and
\fB\%archive_error_string\fP()
functions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
\fBtar\fP(1),
\fBarchive_write\fP(3),
\fBarchive_write_format\fP(3),
\fBarchive_write_set_options\fP(3),
\fBlibarchive\fP(3),
\fBcpio\fP(5),
\fBmtree\fP(5),
\fBtar\fP(5)
