ARCHIVE_WRITE_DATA(3) manual page 
== NAME == 
'''archive_write_data''', 
'''archive_write_data_block''' 
- functions for creating archives 
== LIBRARY == 
Streaming Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive) 
== SYNOPSIS == 
'''<nowiki>#include <archive.h></nowiki>''' 
<br> 
''la_ssize_t'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_data'''(''struct archive *'', ''const void *'', ''size_t''); 
<br> 
''la_ssize_t'' 
<br> 
'''archive_write_data_block'''(''struct archive *'', ''const void *'', ''size_t size'', ''int64_t offset''); 
== DESCRIPTION == 
<dl> 
<dt>'''archive_write_data'''()</dt><dd> 
Write data corresponding to the header just written. 
</dd><dt>'''archive_write_data_block'''()</dt><dd> 
Write data corresponding to the header just written. 
This is like 
'''archive_write_data'''() 
except that it performs a seek on the file being 
written to the specified offset before writing the data. 
This is useful when restoring sparse files from archive 
formats that support sparse files. 
Returns number of bytes written or -1 on error. 
(Note: This is currently not supported for 
'''archive_write''' 
handles, only for 
'''archive_write_disk''' 
handles. 
</dd></dl> 
== RETURN VALUES == 
This function returns the number of bytes actually written, or 
a negative error code on error. 
== ERRORS == 
Detailed error codes and textual descriptions are available from the 
'''archive_errno'''() 
and 
'''archive_error_string'''() 
functions. 
== BUGS == 
In libarchive 3.x, this function sometimes returns 
zero on success instead of returning the number of bytes written. 
Specifically, this occurs when writing to an 
''archive_write_disk'' 
handle. 
Clients should treat any value less than zero as an error 
and consider any non-negative value as success. 
== SEE ALSO == 
[[ManPageBsdtar1]], 
[[ManPageArchiveWriteFinishEntry3]], 
[[ManPageArchiveWriteSetOptions3]], 
[[ManPageLibarchive3]], 
[[ManPageCpio5]], 
[[ManPageMtree5]], 
[[ManPageTar5]] 
